# pollingsim
HW 3 for CPSC 310  
Grace Cheung   
gvc8  

Tigger = 0, Pooh = 1

Part 1
1. Pooh's strongest state (according to MrP values): Poplar Point  
   Pooh's weakest state: Oak Haven
   
2. Individual with a very low predicted probability of voting for Pooh:  
   state: Oak Haven, race: tiger, college: 0, predicted probability: 0.2061418  
   Individual with a very high predicted probability of voting for Pooh:  
   state: Woozleburg, race: bear, college: 1, predicted probability: 0.7678621  
   
Part 2
1. Pooh's winning percentage in the first set of simulations = 0.007  
   Pooh's winning percentage in the second set of simulations = 0.125  
   
2. This is a bad idea primarily because each state's probability of being hit by a hurricane is not independent, and this model does not factor that in. Similar to the national-level uncertainty affects state-level uncertainty in the polling simulation, national-level factors such as general weather trends can affect state-level probabilites of being hit by a hurricane. If national-level probability is not factored in, there could be financial consequences. For example, if the overall national probability of hurricanes is higher this year because of weather trends, then the predicted future claims will be much lower than the actual claims, costing the hurricane insurance company a lot of money.  

Part 3  
  The National Popular Vote Interstate Compact is a better mechanism for translating voter preferences into electoral outcomes. My reasoning is similar to the arguments listed in the pros section of the NPVIC (Ballotpedia), specifically that the electoral college is intrinsically undemocratic and that it artificially bolsters the importance of a few arbitrary states.  
  The core of why I support these arguments is because I believe that the electoral college depends on a false assumption of state unity. Originally, America was a unique country, because it operated as a kind overarching nation over many smaller nations, forming a republic. This left many laws and policies up to the states, and much of our current government structure relies on this principle of representation by state in the national context, with much other regulation of individuals left up to the state. Furthermore, the electoral college delegates originally had more power - the system originally was designed as a compromise between the popular vote and a congressional selection of the president - so the electors would operate more as representatives of the people rather than automatically being assigned to whichever candidates received the most votes in their state. Theoretically, with the republic system, these electors would be an accurate representation of the states’ voters. However, as time passed, what nobody could have predicted was the extreme population and political imbalance that would be created, with the majority of Americans living in a few huge cities in a few states. This created a state-level cultural divide, with huge pockets of people (who lean more liberal) surrounded by rural areas (leaning more conservative, but responsible for many material goods such as agriculture). It makes no sense that they should all be packaged within the same state, and have their voices be combined into the same electors. It erases voters’ voices and promotes strategic targeting of states, conflating the state with the individual. Essentially, the electoral college relies on an outdated and misleading paradigm of states within our country.  
  Many people argue that without the electoral college system, rural voters’ and states’ voices would be suppressed by the larger population of liberal cities. However, I would like to counter-argue that because of this state-level divide, rural votes have no effect in states with large cities. I live in Maryland, and this is evident in how liberal areas near Washington DC and Baltimore are, compared to the remainder of rural Maryland which is heavily conservative. However, there are more people in the urban areas, so the state usually ends up voting blue. The electoral college system hurts both rural and urban voters. Rural voters within a state with big cities suffer, and within the country, liberal voters all within one state suffer.  
  To add further empirical evidence: in my personal experience, being relatively recently able to vote in the last election, as well as living in a very solidly blue state (Maryland) that is adjacent to a swing state (Virginia), I notice a huge difference in the amount of attention candidates give to states that already seem confirmed in one direction vs. states that could lean either way. Crossing the state border from Maryland to Virginia in 2016 meant radio stations or even targeted social media ads for either candidate would suddenly increase, which was jarring. Furthermore, it exacerbates voter apathy. A consequence that the article does not touch upon but one that I think is still important to consider is that the ramifications of nationally induced voter apathy (because of the electoral college) extend downwards to local elections (leading to Maryland having a Republican governor). It symbolically instills the idea that voting outcomes are divorced from the individual actions. A common sentence I would hear at home is “I probably won’t vote - the lines will be so long, and we’re guaranteed blue anyways.” 
